homechevrons-leftemailspinner8facebookfacebook2instagramtwitteryoutube
[//www.howstuffworks.com/] [//www.howstuffworks.com] *
   [//www.howstuffworks.com/random]
 *
   [https://www.facebook.com/HowStuffWorks]
 *
   [https://twitter.com/howstuffworks]
 *
   [https://www.instagram.com/howstuffworks/]
 *
   [https://www.youtube.com/user/HowStuffWorks?sub_confirmation=1]

 * LifestyleHealth [https://health.howstuffworks.com/]Science
   [https://science.howstuffworks.com/]Home & Garden
   [https://home.howstuffworks.com/]Auto [https://auto.howstuffworks.com/]Tech
   [https://electronics.howstuffworks.com/tech]Culture
   [https://people.howstuffworks.com/culture]Money
   [https://money.howstuffworks.com/]Lifestyle
   [https://lifestyle.howstuffworks.com/]Entertainment
   [https://entertainment.howstuffworks.com/]Adventure
   [https://adventure.howstuffworks.com/]Animals
   [https://animals.howstuffworks.com/]Reviews
   [https://reviews.howstuffworks.com]Quizzes [https://play.howstuffworks.com/]
   Podcasts [http://www.stuffmedia.com/]
 * Food [https://recipes.howstuffworks.com/]
 * Crafts [https://lifestyle.howstuffworks.com/crafts]
 * Weddings [https://lifestyle.howstuffworks.com/weddings]
 * Family [https://lifestyle.howstuffworks.com/family]
 * Style [https://lifestyle.howstuffworks.com/style]
 * Event Planning [https://lifestyle.howstuffworks.com/event-planning]

Search TermsPlease enter terms to search for.Search# * Adventure
   [//adventure.howstuffworks.com]
 * Animals
   [//animals.howstuffworks.com/]
 * Auto
   [//auto.howstuffworks.com]
 * Culture
   [//people.howstuffworks.com/culture]
 * Entertainment
   [//entertainment.howstuffworks.com]
 * Health
   [//health.howstuffworks.com]
 * Home & Garden
   [//home.howstuffworks.com]
 * Lifestyle
   [//lifestyle.howstuffworks.com]
 * Money
   [//money.howstuffworks.com]
 * Science
   [//science.howstuffworks.com]
 * Tech
   [//electronics.howstuffworks.com/tech]
 * Reviews
   [https://reviews.howstuffworks.com]
 * Quizzes
   [https://play.howstuffworks.com]
 * Podcasts
   [https://www.iheartpodcastnetwork.com/]

Advertisement

 1.  HowStuffWorks [https://www.howstuffworks.com/]
 2.  Lifestyle [https://lifestyle.howstuffworks.com/]
 3.  Food [https://recipes.howstuffworks.com/]
 4.  Tools & Techniques [https://recipes.howstuffworks.com/tools-and-techniques]
 5.  Cooking How-to
    [https://recipes.howstuffworks.com/tools-and-techniques/cooking-how-to.htm]

HOW TO MAKE PASTA
by the Editors of Easy Home Cooking Magazine
[https://www.howstuffworks.com/hsw-contact.htm]
Try It!

Here are some Italian recipes from our collection: * Pasta & Potatoes with Pesto
   [pasta-potatoes-with-pesto-recipe.htm]
 * Baked Pasta with Ricotta
   [baked-pasta-with-ricotta-a-recipe.htm]
 * Penne with Roasted Chicken
   & Vegetables [penne-with-roasted-chicken-vegetables-a-recipe.htm]
 * Italian Meatballs
   [italian-meatballs-recipe.htm]
 * Chicken Cacciatore
   [chicken-cacciatore-a-recipe.htm]
 * Classic Fettuccine Alfredo
   [classic-fettuccine-alfredo-a-recipe.htm]

The possible combinations of pasta and sauce -- there are more than 150 shapes
of dried pasta alone -- are limitless and may even be a little intimidating.
Long or short, smooth or ridged, thick or thin, with or without curves and
crevices, different shapes of pasta capture and absorb sauce differently.
Matched correctly, the right shape can make a good sauce great. Use the wrong
shape and the dish may still taste good, but it just won't come together as
well. The basic rules are simple: The flatter and longer shapes combine well
with olive oil and cream sauces; sturdier shapes work well with chunkier and
more assertively flavored sauces. Classic marinara and simple cream and butter
sauces go well with basically all pasta.

How to cook each type of pasta in order to create that al dente texture can be a
bit tricky. Take a look at the next section for tips.

Want more information? Try these:


 * Cooking [cooking.htm]: Learn the ins and outs of some basic cooking
   techniques in this helpful article.

Advertisement

Advertisement

 GUIDELINES FOR COOKING PASTA
The cooking guidelines for pasta vary depending on the type of pasta you're
using. Following are some basic tips for both dry and fresh pasta.

Dry Pasta: For every pound of dry pasta, bring 4 to 6 quarts of water to a full,
rolling boil. Add 2 teaspoons salt, if desired. Gradually add pasta, allowing
water to return to a boil. The water helps circulate the pasta so that it cooks
evenly. Stir frequently to prevent the pasta from sticking.

Begin testing for doneness at the minimum recommended time given on the package
directions. Pasta should be "al dente" -- tender, yet firm, and not mushy.
Immediately drain pasta to prevent overcooking. For best results, toss the pasta
with sauce immediately after draining. If the sauce is not ready, toss the pasta
with some butter or oil to prevent it from sticking. Store uncooked dry pasta in
a cool dry place.

Fresh Pasta: Homemade pasta cooks in less time than dry pasta. Cook fresh pasta
the same way as dry, except begin testing for doneness after 2 minutes. Fresh
pasta will last several weeks in the refrigerator or can be frozen up to 1
month.

Ready to attempt to make your own fresh pasta? Check out the next page for tips.
Want more information? Try these:


 * Cooking [/cooking.htm]: Learn the ins and outs of some basic cooking
   techniques in this helpful article.
 * Italian Cooking [/italian-cooking.htm]: Italian cuisine is not just spaghetti
   and meatballs. Learn all about Italian cooking in this article.
 * Italian Recipes [/italian-recipes.htm]: You're sure to work up an appetite
   when you take a look at the Italian recipes featured here.
 * Pasta Recipes [/pasta-recipes.htm]: Our collection of pasta recipes offer
   excellent ideas for an authentic Italian pasta meal.

Advertisement

Advertisement

 HOW TO MAKE HOMEMADE PASTA BY HAND
It is very simple to make your own fresh pasta at home, even without a pasta
machine. Just follow these basic steps and discover the delicious taste and
satisfaction of eating your very own pasta.
 1. Combine 2 cups all-purpose flour and 1/4 teaspoon salt on pastry board,
    culling board, or countertop; make well in center. Whisk 3 eggs, 1
    tablespoon milk, and1 teaspoon olive oil in small bowl until well blended;
    gradually pour into well in flour mixture while mixing with fork or
    fingertips to form ball of dough.


    Gradually add the mixture to the flour to make a ball of dough. [https://cdn.hswstatic.com/gif/how-to-cook-italian-food-cooking-1.jpg]
    Gradually add the mixture to the
    flour to make a ball of dough.

 2. Place dough on lightly floured surface; flatten slightly. To knead dough,
    fold dough in half toward you and press dough away from you with heels of
    hands. Give dough a quarter turn and continue folding, pushing, and turning.
    Continue kneading 5 minutes or until smooth and elastic, adding more flour
    to prevent sticking if necessary. Wrap dough in plastic wrap; let stand 15
    minutes.


    Knead the dough until it becomes smooth and elastic. [https://cdn.hswstatic.com/gif/how-to-cook-italian-food-cooking-2.jpg]
    Knead the dough until it becomes
    smooth and elastic.

 3. Unwrap dough and knead briefly (as described in step 2) on lightly floured
    surface. Using lightly floured rolling pin, roll out dough to 1/8-inch-thick
    circle on lightly floured surface. Gently pick up dough circle with both
    hands. Hold it up to the light to check for places where dough is too thick.
    Return to board; even out any thick spots. Let rest until dough is slightly
    dry but can be handled without breaking.


 4. Lightly flour dough circle; roll loosely on rolling pin.


    Loosely roll the dough on a rolling pin. [https://cdn.hswstatic.com/gif/how-to-cook-italian-food-cooking-3.jpg]
    Loosely roll the dough on a rolling pin.

 5. Slide rolling pin out; press dough roll gently with hand and cut into strips
    of desired width with sharp knife. Carefully unfold strips.


    Cut the dough into strips of desired width. [https://cdn.hswstatic.com/gif/how-to-cook-italian-food-cooking-4.jpg]
    Cut the dough into strips of desired width.

 6. Pasta can be dried and stored at this point. Hang strips over pasta rack or
    clean broom handle covered with plastic wrap and propped between two chairs.
    Dry at least 3 hours; store in airtight container at room temperature up to
    4 days. To serve, cook pasta in large pot of boiling salted water 3 to 4
    minutes just until al dente. Drain well.

    Dry the pasta using a drying rack. [https://cdn.hswstatic.com/gif/how-to-cook-italian-food-cooking-5.jpg]
    Dry the pasta using a drying rack.

You can also make homemade pasta with the help of a machine. See the next page
for details.
Want more information? Try these:


 * Cooking [/cooking.htm]: Learn the ins and outs of some basic cooking
   techniques in this helpful article.
 * Italian Cooking [/italian-cooking.htm]: Italian cuisine is not just spaghetti
   and meatballs. Learn all about Italian cooking in this article.
 * Italian Recipes [/italian-recipes.htm]: You're sure to work up an appetite
   when you take a look at the Italian recipes featured here.
 * Pasta Recipes [/pasta-recipes.htm]: Our collection of pasta recipes offer
   excellent ideas for an authentic Italian pasta meal.

Advertisement

Advertisement

 HOW TO MAKE HOMEMADE PASTA WITH A MACHINE
You don't have to make pasta by hand to make it from scratch. Follow are tips on
using a pasta machine.
 1. Combine 2 cups plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon
    milk, 1 teaspoon olive oil and 1/4 teaspoon salt in food processor. Process
    until dough forms; shape into a ball.


    Combine pasta mixture in the food processor and run until the dough forms a ball. [https://cdn.hswstatic.com/gif/how-to-cook-italian-food-cooking-6.jpg]
    Combine pasta mixture in a food
    processor and run until
    the dough forms a ball.

 2. Place dough on lightly floured surface; flatten slightly. Cut dough into 4
    pieces. Wrap 3 dough pieces in plastic wrap; set aside.


 3. Knead dough with pasta machine. Set rollers of pasta machine at widest
    setting (position 1). Feed unwrapped dough piece through flat rollers by
    turning handle. (Dough may crumble slightly at first but will hold together
    after two to three rollings.)


    Knead the dough through the pasta machine at the widest setting. [https://cdn.hswstatic.com/gif/how-to-cook-italian-food-cooking-7.jpg]
    Knead the dough through the pasta
    machine at the widest setting.

 4. Lightly flour dough strip; fold strip into thirds. Feed through rollers
    again. Continue process 7 to 10 times until dough is smooth and elastic.


    Fold the pasta dough into thirds. [https://cdn.hswstatic.com/gif/how-to-cook-italian-food-cooking-8.jpg]
    Fold the pasta dough into thirds.

 5. Roll out dough with machine. Reduce setting to position 3. Feed dough strip
    through rollers. Without folding strip into thirds, repeat on positions 5
    and 6. Let dough stand 5 to 10 minutes until slightly dry.


 6. Attach desired shape and size of pasta roller and feed dough through,
    catching finished pasta with free hand as it emerges. Repeat kneading and
    rolling with reserved dough pieces.


    Using the desired attachment, feed the dough through the pasta machine. [https://cdn.hswstatic.com/gif/how-to-cook-italian-food-cooking-9.jpg]
    Using the desired attachment, feed the
    dough through the pasta machine.

 7. Pasta can be dried and stored at this point. Hang pasta strips over pasta
    rack or clean broom handle covered with plastic wrap and propped between two
    chairs. (Or, twirl pasta into nests and place on clean kitchen towels.) Dry
    at least 3 hours; store in airtight container at room temperature up to 4
    days.

Introduce the Italian tradition of making pasta into your home by following the
easy steps outlined in this article. Your stomach will thank you!
Want more information? Try these:


 * Cooking [/cooking.htm]: Learn the ins and outs of some basic cooking
   techniques in this helpful article.
 * Italian Cooking [/italian-cooking.htm]: Italian cuisine is not just spaghetti
   and meatballs. Learn all about Italian cooking in this article.
 * Italian Recipes [/italian-recipes.htm]: You're sure to work up an appetite
   when you take a look at the Italian recipes featured here.
 * Pasta Recipes [/pasta-recipes.htm]: Our collection of pasta recipes offer
   excellent ideas for an authentic Italian pasta meal.

Advertisement

Advertisement

Print
[https://recipes.howstuffworks.com/tools-and-techniques/how-to-make-pasta.htm/printable]
| Citation & Date |Reprint [https://www.parsintl.com/publication/howstuffworks/]

Advertisement


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RELATED CONTENT
How to Bake Bread [data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
viewBox='0 0 3 2'%3E%3C/svg%3E] "How to Bake Bread
[https://resize.hswstatic.com/w_256/gif/baking-bread.jpg]"
[https://recipes.howstuffworks.com/tools-and-techniques/how-to-bake-bread-cooking.htm]
How to Bake Bread
[https://recipes.howstuffworks.com/tools-and-techniques/how-to-bake-bread-cooking.htm]
Mushrooms: Wash 'em or Brush 'em Off? [data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 3 2'%3E%3C/svg%3E] "Mushrooms:
Wash 'em or Brush 'em Off?
[https://resize.hswstatic.com/w_256/gif/mushrooms.jpg] "
[https://recipes.howstuffworks.com/tools-and-techniques/wash-or-brush-mushrooms.htm]
Mushrooms: Wash 'em or Brush 'em Off?
[https://recipes.howstuffworks.com/tools-and-techniques/wash-or-brush-mushrooms.htm]
The Delectable History of Cookbooks [data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg
xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' viewBox='0 0 3 2'%3E%3C/svg%3E] "The
Delectable History of Cookbooks
[https://resize.hswstatic.com/w_256/gif/cookbook-3.jpg] "
[https://recipes.howstuffworks.com/tools-and-techniques/delectable-history-cookbooks.htm]
The Delectable History of Cookbooks
[https://recipes.howstuffworks.com/tools-and-techniques/delectable-history-cookbooks.htm]
Advertisement

Advertisement

Advertisement

Advertisement

Advertisement

Advertisement

[//www.howstuffworks.com/] * About [https://www.howstuffworks.com/about-hsw.htm]
 * Podcasts [https://www.stuffmedia.com/]
 * Privacy Policy
   [//www.howstuffworks.com/privacy.htm]
 * Ad Choices
   [//www.howstuffworks.com/privacy.htm#ad-choices]
 * Terms
   [//www.howstuffworks.com/terms-and-conditions.htm]
 * Sitemap [https://www.howstuffworks.com/sitemap.htm]

 * Careers [//www.howstuffworks.com/jobs.htm]
 * Contact Us [//www.howstuffworks.com/hsw-contact.htm]
 * Help [//www.howstuffworks.com/faq.htm]
 * Reprints [https://www.parsintl.com/publication/howstuffworks/]
 * Do Not Sell My Info [javascript:HSW.cmp.show();]

NEWSLETTER
Get the best of HowStuffWorks by email!

Keep up to date on: Latest Buzz · Stuff Shows & Podcasts · Tours · Weird & Wacky

Sign Up [//www.howstuffworks.com/newsletter.htm]Copyright © 2020 HowStuffWorks,
a division of InfoSpace Holdings, LLC [http://www.infospace.com/], a System1
Company [https://system1.com/]

Privacy Choices

We use cookies to personalise content and ads, to provide social media features
and to analyse our traffic. We also share information about your use of our site
with our social media, advertising and analytics partners who may combine it
with other information that you’ve provided to them or that they’ve collected
from your use of their services. You consent to our cookies if you continue to
use our website.

 Do not sell my data

OK

Information that may be used

 * Type of browser and its settings
 * Information about the device's operating system
 * Cookie information
 * Information about other identifiers assigned to the device
 * The IP address from which the device accesses a client's website or mobile
   application
 * Information about the user's activity on that device, including web pages and
   mobile apps visited or used
 * Information about the geographic location of the device when it accesses a
   website or mobile application